>> Mike: I've got rename here, and
there are three levels to rename.
It goes from pretty good,
we've been using find and
replace for a while, and
then starts to get better from there.
So pretty good is Find and Replace, and
that works exactly as you would expect.
So if we go back to our listener-support
here, we can hit Cmd+F,
find something, open this up and
replace it with something else.
This has been around for
ages, not really interesting.
Level two is using Cmd+D for
selection, and
then using basically multicursor
support to write out the new name.
So level three would be F2 for
renaming a symbol in all files,
and here's what that looks like.
If I were to say, go to the cart-store,
I'm looking for a public function here.
doCheckout(), that seems pretty important,
checkout with my order here.
I can hit F2 and
it's gonna let me rename this.
>> Mike: I'll say checkoutNow,
I'm gonna hit Enter.
So you'll see this little dot up here
indicates I have unsaved changes.
And if I show my sidebar here and
go back to my File Explorer view,
>> Mike: It
looks like this was all localized
within this one file, let's see.
>> Mike: What are my diffs here?
>> Mike: Show changes.
>> Mike: Open changes.
>> Mike: I guess I have to save it.
So there's checkoutNow,
maybe this wasn't wired up?
Let me check a couple other places.
>> Mike: Actually,
I've got a different idea here,
let's look at all the references.
>> Mike: doCheckout's only used here.
>> Mike: Cart
>> Mike: Ah-ha,
so maybe this is sort of too deep in
React land for it to be detected here.
Let me pick something a little
bit less of a back flip here.
>> Mike: Let's do in our listener-support,
cuz I'm gonna pick something that
is only used in JavaScript outside of
the render function of our React stuff.
So if I have register and
unregister, I could hit F2,
do registerListener, save it.
And what we've got here are a couple
of other files that were open.
And if we look at what's
happened in each of those,
it's actually changed it
across multiple files here.
So through it's knowledge of
the way our code is structured.
It appears there's a little
gap where if you're using it,
if it's something that's bound into
a React component in the render function,
maybe it has trouble walking that syntax,
that part of the AST.
But for the most part,
this is pretty nice, and
you could go into each of these and
use these little things in the gutter.
See I've got two little blue notches here,
those represent
modifications to this file.
So we could go check them out one by one,
everything looks good, save it.
And we should be good now, and
our app will continue to work.
>> Mike: Or it should.
>> Mike: If it's in the foreground,
if we let it work.
[LAUGH] And if we wanted to change
it back, we could just do this.
You could actually do it from
within any of those functions,
you don't have to go to the definition,
you could just go to the use, right?
We could go here and say, nope change it
back, we're just gonna to have register.
>> Mike: And then, now we've got
all of these modifications again.
We can do Save All if we wanted to.
And just say, well, we will proofread
this when we're making our git commit.
So that's a relatively recent
addition to Visual Studio Code.
Another type of refactoring that
is common is taking some code and
extracting it out into a function.
So let's look at how that works.
>> Mike: Let's say that we've
got this code here, right?
So basically this is
adding an item to a cart.
If it's already in the cart,
we're just gonna bump up
the quantity of the existing item, rather
than adding a new item to this cart.
So for some reason we want
to make this its own file.
You see that when we select this and
click this little light bulb,
this is giving us the ability to make this
a new function within the same class.
So if I hit Enter,
you'll see we've got newFunction here.
And we could click on that and see,
there's our stuff,
probably needs some formatting love.
We could select that, hit F2,
say addOrIncrementCartItem, Enter.
And now that was also renamed
wherever it was used, right here.
So pretty nice,
this is opening up a new workflow that is,
in my view, a great way to do things.
But typically requires some manual work.
And that is just start
writing your function, and
as you see chunks of code that might be,
>> Mike: More broadly useful
than just accomplishing this one thing,
refactor that out into it's own thing.
And then rename lets you just do
the finishing step of adding something
descriptive.
And then go back into that function again,
and it's really easy now,
just select, refactor out,
and it just works.
And depending on what
context you may be in,
it could say create a new global
function called this, right?
If you're not inside a class,
that would be the option given to you.
So that is pretty cool, and
that landed two weeks ago?
So, again, this is approaching IDE
level code manipulation features